---
layout: page
title: testing:buildsnapshots
parent_title: Commands
permalink: /cli/commands/testing.buildsnapshots.html
modification_time: 2016-08-03T12:00:00+00:00
---

This CLI command will rebuild the snapshot images used for unit testing changes and the `testing:comparesnapshots` 
CLI command. This is a processive-intensive task and usually takes 3+ minutes.  

The snapshots are generated by creating PDFs using the PHP files found in the 
[mpdf/mpdf-examples](https://github.com/mpdf/mpdf-examples) GitHub repo and then generating images of each page.

# Dependencies

To actually run the command correctly you need:

1. [Imagemagick](http://www.imagemagick.org/script/index.php) v6.7.* installed. 
1. [PHP's Imagick extension](http://php.net/manual/en/intro.imagick.php) (available as a [Pecl extension](https://pecl.php.net/package/imagick))
1. To have run `composer install` and not `composer install --no-dev` so all the developer dependencies are downloaded

# Usage

You can run the CLI command by executing `php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots`. By default this command will generate 
new snapshots for all example PDFs. 

The exception to this is a number of excluded PDFs that aren't processed due to their size, or issues with Imagemagick:

* example14_page_numbers_ToC_Index_Bookmarks.php
* example27_CJK_using_Adobe_fonts.php
* example42_MPDFI_templatedoc.php
* example54_new_mPDF_v5-1_features_gradients_and_images.php
* example56_new_mPDF_v5-1_features_grayscale.php
* example57_new_mPDF_v5-3_active_forms.php
* example65_CMYK_colour_charts.php
* example37_barcodes.php

# Options

There are multiple options you can pass to this command to change its behaviour. 

*--template= or -t*
When set, only the selected Mpdf templates will be snapshotted (by default all templates are snapshotted). 
You can pass this option multiple times to rebuild multiple PDFs.

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots --template=example01_basic.php`

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots --template=example01_basic.php --template=example05_tables.php`

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots -t example01_basic.php`

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots -t example01_basic.php -t example05_tables.php`

*--example-dir= or -e*

This option allows you to change the path to the example templates directory. By default we use 
`/../vendor/mpdf/examples/` but you might want to snapshot a different bunch of Mpdf templates.

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots --example-dir=/full/path/to/folder/`

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots -e /full/path/to/folder/`

*--output-dir= or -o*

This option allows you to change the path the generated snapshots should be saved to. By default we use 
`/../vendor/mpdf/snapshots/`.

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots --output-dir=/full/path/to/folder/`

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots -o /full/path/to/folder/`

*--tmp-dir= or -m*

This option allows you to change the path to the temporary directory used for processing. By default we use 
`/../tmp/snapshots/`.

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots --tmp-dir=/full/path/to/folder/`

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots -m /full/path/to/folder/`

*--php-path= or -p*

This option allows you to change the PHP executable that should be used to generate the PDFs from the Mpdf templates.
We default we expect this is added as a global command `php`, but can be changed if you have multiple versions installed.

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots --php-path=/full/path/to/binary/php`

`php bin/mpdf/testing:buildsnapshots -p /full/path/to/binary/php`